---
layout: post
title: "Nonviolent Communication"
last_modified_at: 2022-10-13
permalink: /nvc/
description: "Nonviolent Communication is a method of communication based on the assumption that we all share the same, basic human needs."
published: true
img: "nvc.png"
---

Nonviolent Communication (<abbr title="Nonviolent Communication" class="initialism">NVC</abbr>) is a method of
communication based on the assumption that we all share the same, basic human needs.

NVC assumes that physical and verbal violence—whether directed at ourselves or others—are learned behaviours taught
and supported by social structures.

#### Violent Communication
---

NVC proposes that violent communication comes from _moralistic judgements_. It also challenges the notion that there
is _right_ and _wrong_, or _good_ people and _bad_ people.

In this way of thinking, judgements about ourselves and others are discoraged:

- "I'm a failure"
- "She talks too much"
- "I'm awful at talking to people"

#### Punishment and Reward
---

NVC also challenges the way our social structures are predicated on _punishment_ and _reward_, from the root
assumption that there exists _good_ behaviour and _bad_ behaviour.

Instead, NVC advocates [restorative justice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Restorative_justice).

#### Observations
---

NVC suggests that instead of moralistic judgements, we can use observations which are free from
thought/interpretation.

Observations:

- "He hasn't done his homework in 10 days"
- "Each time we have a team meeting, Jen speaks for the majority of the time"


#### Feelings
---

One of the core components of NVC is **feelings**. NVC assumes that we all have the same basic human feelings
which are free from thought/interpretation. I.e., feelings just are.

Pseudo-feelings (not free from thought/interpretation):

- “I feel like I didn’t get a fair deal”
- "I feel ignored"

In our language, we often use sentences that start with _“I feel like…”_, however these are often voicing opinions
rather than feelings, e.g., _“I feel like I didn’t get a fair deal”_.

True feelings:

- "I feel sad"
- "I feel embarrassed"
- "I'm scared"

#### Needs
---

The other core component of NVC is **needs**. NVC assumes that we all have the same basic human needs:

- Love
- Enjoyment
- Order
- Respect
- Safety

When we relate to ourselves in terms of our feelings and needs, we can become more specific about what is not
making us happy.

E.g., _“I feel depressed”_ can become _“I’m feeling lonely because I’m really needing some love and attention”_.

Getting in touch with our feelings and needs provides greater clarity to ourselves and others on how life could be
more wonderful.


#### Validating feelings
---

**Scenario**: failing a test

**Invalidating response**: _“you could have done this or that…”_. Feelings are ignored or discouraged.

**Validating response**: _“wow, it is so hard that it didn’t turn out the way you wanted, I’m guessing you’re feeling upset right now”_. Feelings are acknowledged and respected.


#### Requests
---

NVC asserts that we cannot force other people to do what we want; conversely, nobody can force us to do what
we don't want.

Instead NVC suggests using requests to other people based on our feelings and needs:

- "I'm feeling tired right now and I'd like to rest. Would you be willing to reschedule to tomorrow?"
- "I feel annoyed when I hear you say 'you won't be able to do it' because it doesn't meet my need for respect. Would you be willing to give me a chance and some help in completing this task?"
