---
layout: post
title: "Opinion: The Problem with DEI"
author: George Baker
---
<div class="alert alert-light" role="alert">
<strong>Disclaimer</strong>: This is a personal opinion piece and does not represent the views of my employer.
</div>


_Diversity_, _Inclusion_, and _Equality_ (DEI) are all concepts that sound great on the surface: _"Of course we want diversity!"_,
_"Who wouldn't want equality?"_, _"Of course we want to include everyone!"_.
How could any critisism of these concepts come from anything but ignorance at
best and bigotry at worst?

But to be so offended by any criticism of DEI that your immediate reaction is
anger and your immediate instinct is to shut down the conversation is not a good
sign; in fact, it rather suggests to me that this might be a bit of a cult,
centered around a set of _political_ beliefs that are not to be questioned, and that are
grounded in an ideological moral panic.

So what could possibly be wrong with DEI? Well, for a start, it's very unclear to me what exactly
_"Diversity, Inclusion, and Equality"_ all mean...

For example, by "diversity", do we mean diversity of thought and opinion? Or do we mean diversity
of skin colour? If it's the latter, does it matter if we have people who all think the same but 
look different? Is that diversity? Furthermore, Japan does not strike me as diverse when it comes
to ethnicity. Is that a problem that needs addressing? There doesn't seem to be much diversity in
the bricklaying field; is that an awful injustice?

Furthemore, is it a problem
that in the tech industry: the so-called bastion of 'inclusive' policies, the vast majority of political donations go to left leaning
parties? Is the lack of diversity in political opinion a problem that needs
addressing?

Does the "E" stand for _"equality"_ or _"equity"_ (which as far as I can tell are very different...)
And do we mean equality of opportunity, or equality of outcome? E.g., do we want the number of 
executives to be exactly half men and half women; thus achieving "equality"? Or does "equality"
mean that everyone has an equal opportunity to reach those positions, and it doesn't matter what
the outcome is? The problem is, these are dieametrically opposed goals.

So I'm not exactly clear on what DEI means and I'm not convinced that the
people who are pushing DEI programs and hiring quotas are clear on what it means either. In my opinion,
it seems performative and virtue signalling, rather than a genuine attempt to make the world a better
place.

I believe in judging people as individuals, not through the lens of race,
gender, or any other immutable characteristic. If we're really serious about
creating a society where people are judged by the content of their character,
then in my opinion we should stop obsessing over "diversity, equality, and inclusion" and 
just aim to treat people fairly and without discrimination. 

